###### 14 Feburary 2007 on Personal Blog

## [No More Ubuntu]

I upgraded this server from Ubuntu Dapper to Debian Etch because
of the `/bin/sh -> /bin/dash` debacle. Things broke because they
decided to change the default shell without ANY warning and no
hint that they even care about the problem. Not on folks. I'll
still use Kubuntu for desktops but not for servers, ever again.
Sure I could easily work around it but I no longer trust
Canonical/Ubuntu NOT to pull some stunt like this again in the
future so it's back to good old reliable Debian proper for all my
servers. BTW a simple workaround for anyone still running a
post-Dapper Ubuntu system to retain the previous sane bash as the
default shell is to use **dpkg-reconfigure dash** and deselect it
as the default shell.

Here, FWIW, is one response that I [posted] on the Ubuntu
Launchpad bug tracking system.

> What worries me about this issue is the attitude of the ubuntu
> developers. I no longer trust the ubuntu devs to do the right
> thing to help me keep the systems I make a living from up and
> running and am now looking at migrating everything to etch+
> instead of edgy+. The overwhelming right thing to do would have
> been to advertise the need to change from bash to dash and put a
> deadline on it no less than 1/2 a year on notice, THEN make the
> change. Suddenly unleashing KNOWN breakage like this is
> unacceptable to me. Such a pity I have to forgo a good distro in
> all other respects because of this stupid move by a few devs.
> Like I say, I no longer trust ubuntu devs not to do something
> like this again in the future. And yes, breaking trust is a
> serious bug.

[No More Ubuntu]: /5
[posted]: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dash/+bug/61463
