######  8 February 2014 on Personal Blog

# [MultiHost Setup]

The first **nginx.conf** file was orientated towards running a few different
hosts within the `/home/admin/var/www` area and was easy for a single `admin`
user to manage but it did not allow for different users to safely manage each
vhost with their own uid:gid. So now the current setup uses `/etc/passwd`
based users each with their own website within their own homedir. The current
example setup at [bojax.net] also provides for `ssh`, `sftp` and `rsync`
access to each users web area as well as [chroots] the user so they cannot
see the rest of the system let alone other users sites. The use of `ssh` and
friends replaces `webdav` support which will most like be removed altogether.

The new system setup uses `u[0-9]` usernames where the `[0-9]` number matches
the assigned `uid` (3rd column below) so they can be auto generated using the
next higher uid. The users homedir is set within a root owned `/home/ns` area
so that the sshd `ChrootDirectory` can work and lock users into their own
homedir when they ssh, sftp or rsync into their remote servers web area.

    admin:x:1000:1::/home/admin:/bin/bash
    u1001:x:1001:1::/home/ns/bojax.net:/bin/sh
    u1002:x:1002:1::/home/ns/markconstable.com:/bin/sh

A default `admin` user is always set up with a uid of 1000 and is not subject
to being chrooted so this admin user has access to the `sudo` command to
adequately manage the server. To provide the chroot for u* users we use this
stanza appended to the end of the systems `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file...

    #Subsystem sftp /usr/lib/openssh/sftp-server
    Subsystem sftp internal-sftp

    Match User u*
      ChrootDirectory %h
      X11Forwarding no
      AllowTcpForwarding no

so any username that starts with a **u** gets chrooted to their domainnamed
homedir. This `nginx` config snippet below then selects the correct users
website without requiring a separate config file for each vhost...

    server {
      listen       80;
      server_name  ~^(?<domain>.+)$;
      root         /home/ns/$domain/var/www;
      location     ~^/ { try_files $uri $uri/ /index.html; }
    }

so browsing to [bojax.net], for example, will pull up the index.html file
from the `/home/ns/bojax.net/var/www` folder.

For each users homedir to be chroot'able it requires a few system utilities
to run independently of the main operating system and fortunately the standard
Ubuntu `busybox` package does most of the work with special statically
compiled versions of `nano` (a simple console editor) and `rsync` added to
compliment the various busybox utilities. It's dubious how useful direct ssh
access to such a crippled system might be but it's worth exploring and the
main point is that `sftp` and `rsync` access is indeed restricted to just this
user login area.

How to build, setup and manage this user chrooted system will be the subject
of another post, perhaps another whole project. This is just an introduction
to one variation of how BoJAX can be deployed on remote server.

[chroots]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chroot
[bojax.net]: http://bojax.net
[MultiHost Setup]: /1
